+++
draft = false
date = 2020-04-10T16:05:56-07:00
title = "Bumble bee experiments in lockdown"
description = "A MacGyver guide to rearing bumble bees for small experiments at home"
slug = "/posts/macgyver-bumblebee-experiments"
tags = ["Rearing", "Rigs", "COVID"]
categories = ["Experiments", "Bumble bee"]
externalLink = ""
series = []
+++
{{< load-photoswipe >}}

**_PSA: The effect on human life and families is tragic and infuriates me. I'm not trying to draw a parallel between a loss of life and a loss of productivity: the primary concern should be the health and wellbeing of world citizens. Do not pursue experiments if they risk the safety of you or those around you. Stay at home if you can't effectively mitigate those risks._**

**_Additionally, if you are in a region of the country with historical records of rusty-patch bumble bees, it is illegal to handle specimens of this species without a permit from the US Fish and Wildlife service. This blog post focuses on working with species known to be stable. If you can't identify these species with certainty, please refrain from collecting._**

The chaos brought about by the global coronavirus pandemic have not only claimed lives, it has disrupted experiments in science labs across the world. Many folks have been forced to scrap entire experiments, field seasons, and I'm sure, pursuit of their degree.

Some scientists can still carry on their pieces of their work at home or in back yards, including those of us who study bumble bees. Bumble queens are just emerging across the US. This is perhaps my favorite part of the year after a long winter full of writing manuscripts and code. Seeing the huge, fluffy queens lumber about after a long winter slumber is just such a welcoming sight.

I recently received a request for tips on rearing bumble bee queens for experiments, and thought that it may be a good idea to share some tips to rear bumble bees on a budget and at home. This post lays out the supplies needed, how to capture and install queens, providing colonies optimal conditions, and some hints that might make troubleshooting issues easier.

# Capturing queens